# On the sprawl

The Sprawl is a vast network of city worlds and mega structures that is actually a pan-galactic ecology of living architectures.  They have intelligent life as part of them due to the initial purpose of the sprawl being to integrate the species of the galaxy.  It's unclear if that is even the purpose anymore.  More that they are bacteria part of the pan-city leviathan.

The automata which build the sprawl are a part of the sprawl body systems, colonizing and integrating new parts of the sprawl into itself.  It has been doing this for dozens of millennia, leading to city worlds that colonize each other within systems and billions of worlds that have sprawl structures.  Many uninhabited by anything other than sprawl buildings and mindless automata that keep the thing running.

The Sprawl is constructed by a preset procedure more than planning, the architects of the sprawl being enigmatic and ancient ideologues who sought to make a galaxy habitable to all intelligent life.  The sprawl seeks out and absorbs indigenous organisms to the cities, from gas giants to lava worlds they have a city plan for all cases or so they assumed.  It turns out the architecture assumed much larger creatures than there actually were as the norm and ice worlders tended not to get inclusion into the sprawl, their worlds being seen as resource depots at best.  They seemed to think in terms of a gravity slightly higher than earth as the norm as well, while the procedure accounts for gravity it is hardly accommodating to lower gravity occupants.  

The sprawl hit its height over ten thousand years age, as it rapidly moved forwards on its initiatives of galactic remaking.  However it fell into numerous issues from those part of the sprawl to the functional failings of the sprawl itself slowing piling up the issues the creator's of the sprawl could never have seen.  Different sprawl eras where different species dominated the sprawl can she marked ours, but after around five thousand years one hits a post-species sprawl civilization that defined the seven thousand years between the middle sprawl to the annihilation conflict.  That all lent itself to the millennia between that annihilation and the rise of even the architect's space.  

Last seven thousand years had been cruel to the sprawl post-annihilation.  Three entire civilizations emerged in the ashes of time.  
