# Understanding the Silent imperium

The Silent imperium as a civilization came from the Raemus Foundation, which was among the various post Terran factions after the terrans collapsed in the 2500's.  They existed prior, as a point of human and Tikali cooperation and science.  Some of the more obscure aspects of this history imply there had already been more actors at play, but the research done in the sector was impressive enough to get the attention of the custodians.  For that reason it’s suspected more is at play.  However the people in the silent imperium are plenty capable of making up their own minds, or so it may seem.  They’re the virtual backups of once organic human beings.  The foundation had a policy of making back up minds, encase of some research catastrophe from antimatter experimentation or warp, no one was sure what sort of disaster could concur but a nanotechnology disaster on one of their colonies that required nuclear saturation to put down had caused the Neural network to be aggressively able to make copies of people’s minds.  The neural net was a tech possible in Terran times that was taboo, but without the restrictions the Raemus Foundation could get funding through becoming an empire that funded their experiments.  Their civilizing project was a mark of tension, especially with the neural network system and nanotechnology disaster on the colony world Vision of Mak.

But it would be one which both saved them and doomed them.  For the Custodians would pick wind of the blink drives and purge the whole sector.  Peculiarly, it was something they knew could occur.  They were all too prepared for the Custodians, but this detail has been lost to the Silent Imperium after 2672.  Even those skeptical of blink drives found a hard time saying it was the fault of the imperium for the Custodians, as even when data was leaked it was clear that those in charge were totally oblivious to the Custodians beyond “anomalies” and had no line of communication with them.  There was no warning.  No recourse.  

The once 217 billion strong Raemus Foundation was reduced to but a billion uploaded minds stored in advanced data ships on the run.  The very tech that doomed them, the Blink Drive, being also their savior.   These numbers sound obtuse to the mind of someone from our present time, yes.  Mind, that is less the countries from a single part of a single planet that wasn't even a type-1 civilization.  Less than 0.5 percent of their people survived these purges.  And that was with the preparations.  That was with the neural network, the back ups and of that 0.5 percent 99% of those were virtual back ups.  Phantom AIs of the dead, able to blink away to the depths of the Stellar Abyss yet unable to even process their own existence.  Are they even living anymore?  Are they even the same anymore?  Can they even be?  The trauma from the genocide alone can haunt those who survive.  They didn't even truly survive, only came to life as their true selves died to alien exterminators of motives too unknown, too distant and incomprehensible to their own.  

Was it truly the Blink Drive?  That was what the survivors latched onto.  They managed to slowly find each other in the after math, in the dark century.  A lot of them returned to the annihilated ruins of the Raemus Foundation, mainly to salvage whatever they could and with paranoia, even though the custodians as they were known, were suspiciously absent.  The Custodians were still hunting them, lost contacts and actual sightings along with near misses in the dark century were a common issue.  Yet they found ways to replicate their tech, despite the hunters that be.  They found a way to grow their fleets.  And in 2745, the Silent Imperium was founded as various silent groups met at a rallying system with various markets and bread crumbs they gave each other, using symbols from the Raemus Foundation on barren worlds to mark where they had been.  

The Custodians didn't pick up on these signal as the Custodians didn't operate on those scales.  They made a pact in 2745 that forever would change the trajectory of galactic history- the Pact of Retribution.  Their goal, to destroy the Custodians.  They continued to grow their fleets, they made use of advancements they scavenged from the Sprawl and raids into Prospect Space.  And in 2900, the present year, the current Imperium is the dominate force of the Civic having within the span of a 150 years grown a population of over a trillion from AI children and recruits they siphon from various factions to their cryptic cause.  There's tension in this, as they are aggressively defensive of the Blink Drive and do not settle worlds out of fear the Custodians will destroy them just as they did the Foundation.  At this point they are becoming more aware of the Prospect, but their activity in the Prospect has only happened in the past couple decades and it's not clear how aware they are of the Prospect's history with the Custodians.  

That is the general history with the Silent imperium.  Surviving only due to the blink drives, in a vast galaxy that is hostile to their own existence.  At the very least, they have the blink drive.  And that was all they needed to become either a force for cosmic justice or the greatest marauders the galaxy has ever seen.  A trillion of them have managed to impact the lives of quadrillions.  It can be incomprehensible that kind of vast influence.  

Internally, they are a culture that is deeply egalitarian yet extremely dedicated to their grand cause of taking the custodians down.  They can't be swayed from it, all of those part of the imperium have these concepts beaten into them from conception and those who reign themselves to the cause through recruitment get the most scrutiny.  If you are even being considered, it's because Silent imperium agents have already did pervasive and deeply invasive background checks on your whole life and you show the altitudes they view needed to be a part of the imperium.  Betraying the cause is given immediate termination in most cases.  

Despite this, they do have a culture.  There's a culture where virtual angst is common, that longing to return yet knowing they can't.  That sense of loss is carried with them into everything.  Relationships are cynical and transactional, one would be hard pressed to think these same beings once were in the sexually libertine environment of the Foundation.  However they put the cause first, as the cause is all the purpose in the universe they have.  There is only the cause.  To reject it is viewed as nihilism.  The generated children of the imperium are very much AI like their parents, with limited mental traits carried over and a default appearance designed by their parents.  Often it is drab, expression of color and vibrancy is insulting even during generation which is viewed less with a party and more as an initiation ceremony.  

One is not born in the Imperium, one is created.  The AI offspring are known to abandon their biological past altogether and become abstract forms or try to return to it through disturbing means.  As while the cause is to annihilate the custodians, the culture of resentment is strong enough members can go out of their way to harass or otherwise attempt to infiltrate and quasi-integrate into other civilizations.  This isn't an acceptable practice, but it has proven useful enough it is one of the least enforced aspects of Imperium Common Ethic.  

The Silent Imperium has made a lot of organic avatars as a result, as whole they can use any construct or machine as an avatar, including  a whole spaceship, a lot of them still like having an avatar resembling themselves at least somewhat.  Being realistic with the appearance is viewed as disrespectful of the past self, so they often are abstracted in forms.

The forms that resemble their last selves still hold to the last they lost either way, while those born into it only have ever known the cause and have a weird, twisted obliviousness to the whole cause.  They are AI entities raised by uplifts who hold a weird sense of lineage to parents who could be two or more parents.  Gender is abstracted heavily in the imperium, what today would be viewed as non-binary or queer is just normal to them.  A lot of stuff around masculinity and femininity had eroded away, as had differences between species all equalized by how they are able to experientially shift themselves to other avatar beings and often may have said avatars inserted into carious societies just to experience them.  If not act as agents of recruitment and the loosest form of diplomacy to other civilizations.  Their avatars are usually drab and simplistic, but extremely realistic.  It is often hard to discern a Silent imperium proxy simulacra or temporarily borrowed minds from an actual actor in the traffic of massive populated environments.  The borrowing of people is a risky practice, often done with civilians they know aren't going to try to alert and even if they do, have a way to leave their mind if they know they will.  Such vicarious existence is something some rogue Silent have taken to, when they fear retribution from the Imperium for their abandonment of the cause.  Often retraining, with the question of what other purpose is there.  For the custodians still exist, there can't be such leisure as long as the custodians still exist.

More strictly regulated ones are different as those often have the metric capacity to pick on behavioral disparities to the point the imperium won't bother.  


## Lifestyle

In the Silent imperium, one lives as a virtual being mainly, in a virtual world where the avatars are all one usually sees is represented spaces.  One can describe it as like an endless dream, as surreal symbolic environments make up the virtual landscapes, generated mainly by local monitors and technicians who work with various groups within to make enough space for the personal needs of many.  Time dilated regions for acceptable leisure is common, as is shifting the whole world whenever there is a need to discuss important plans and assignments.  Everyone has a role in these communities that often are part of the data ship, connected by a social system that is often described as molecular and interpersonal.  The blatant dreamlike environments make it easy for those in these simulated spaces to know when they are in real space, which they still view as important enough that they have avatar constructs in some of their ships and tethered around them.  They can manufacture avatars easily enough, sometimes even massing them for attrition though doing that rarely ever happens as those methods are pointless against custodians who mass kill just fine.  It's usually reserved for other opponents using drones and such as extensions for their avatars.  

A single dataship of the Silent imperium can hold over a hundred thousand minds, in practice it's usually around a few thousand who transfer between dataships within the local flotilla.  The general protocol is you have a local mind that streams with the clone mind kept in the other ship.  This has made for complicated ethical troubles, such as cloned individuals and how many often refuse to ever use anything more than proxies outside their local dataship fearing clones or accidentally cutting their own conscious stream.  Indeed it's not clear if they die or not if something EMPs them.  They're just not sure.  The data being there is all they can go off of.  

## The Structure of the Inperium

The structure of the Silent imperium somewhat egalitarian and logocratic.  Everyone is viewed as working towards retribution against the custodians and it's very ingrained that retribution against the custodians is extremely important.   There's planners and commanders, but they're not viewed as anymore important than the agents who most imperium members are or those who work on the technology and engineer their systems.  For ultimately the pact is what critically matters and in the 2800's this mindset became ever more dominant in the minds of those in the imperium as they took on a huge (growing over 50x from the original population) influx of members not only from those conceived but also from the numerous recruits from both the Civic and Prospect.  This has led to generational gaps, but it is noticeable even these recruited are often even more adherent to the cause as they committed and pushed themselves into this mode of existence.  Organic members are at best associates, local agents who are given backups they become should something kill them.  

The fleets themselves are organized into various groups who relay around various systems, there's not always coordination within the Imperium but it's often able to convene the bulk of it to be able to continue the greater plan of destroying the Custodians.  There's no real equivalent of an admiral and instead the ships link up to work out the next plan of action in a sort of overclocking of mass thinking based on gathered information and material from all the dataships.  This includes various artifacts, new recruits, new mapping data and so on.  It's a massive data transfer and analysis.  Custodian activity is a huge thing reported on.  This connectivity is built to be easily cut off and blinked away from in the case of a potential custodian ambush. It has yet to happen, but the danger of custodian ambush is something taken very seriously by them.  

## Misc

Stuff like biological functions are simulated optionally.  It's one of the weirder divides, those who want to retain bodily functions and those who abandon some of them.  Other weird divides include how abstracted ones avatar should be and the legitimacy of recruits.  Older communities from the actual purge are still around and are viewed with elderly reverence by their conceived AI descendants, though their judgement is warped as their minds had endured trauma from the back up streams.  Many are vagabond in nature and not as committed to the very cause they made as their descendants, who are much more ideologically obsessed with the destruction of the Custodians.  Much of that comes down to not really feeling like there is much a cause.  

Still, the Silent Imperium as a rising force has become dominate in the Civic in the past decades and only shows signs of expanding their scope and reach until they are able to destroy the custodians they view as the great cosmic evil.  Whatever it takes.


### Core Dataship
￼
The core dataship is an important vessel in the Silent imperium flotillas, being a conduit ship which proxy minds convene in locally and many of these often means the whole imperium has convened to deal with a plan.  It's complicated.  It's always complicated.
