# FTL Systems

There is a wide range of ways to distort space-time and make hyperspatial shortcuts in existence.  Now, none of this stuff is actually physically possible in hardest reality, but for whatever reason it works here because believe me, no FTL is a pain to work with.  Civilizations rising and falling everytime you go to a nearby star  is really, really annoying to work with.

## Exploration FTLs

There's a diverse range of this kind of FTL system.  So diverse, there's a classification system.

Here's how to read them:

Drive classification is split into 2 parts.
The prefix, which is the initial for what forces the drive is sensitive to.
The suffix, which is the cosmological scale of that drive's sensitivity to the forces at play.


**Prefixes**

G - Has Gravity sensitivity
GD - Has sensitivity to dark matter and gravity
D - Has dark matter sensitivity (As one may see, such drives don't exist)

**Suffixes**

P - Planetary scale gravity impact
I - Dark matter/Energy impact.  Such drives are subtly affected by the density of matter/dark matter in different regions of the universe, causing them to warp faster or slower depending on the region of space.
U - Special Universal Framing to bypass sensitivities.

### Exploration-Type FTL Roster

- Warp Drives G-P
- Pop Drives G-P
- Vacuum Drives GD-I
- Blink Drives I-U
- Grapple Drives G-P
- Tunneling Drives G-P
- Hop Drives G-I
- Shifter Drives GD-I
- Imaginary Drives GD-U

### Common properties

- It is not possible to build a wormhole within an extremely warped region of space.
- Heat is built up within a warp bubble, this often is a barrier to how far a vessel can warp with exploration-type FTL systems.  
- Heat built up in a warp bubble can't be directed, as it is automatically diffused in all directions once leaving warp.  No death rays for you.
- Heat built up in a warp bubble does not give net energy higher than the energy costs of initiating and sustaining a warp jump.  No infinite energy, okay?
- Hitting gravity well thresholds means you are forced out of warp mode in a way that leaves you within the inertial frame of the object you are near.  Or, you get deposited instead of flung out.
- It is not possible to enter warp mode with relativistic velocities (0.1c or higher).
- Exotic energy usage and collection varies between drive systems.

## Infrastructure based FTL Systems

These don't use a classification system since there's only 4 kinds.

### Warp Relays

Warp relays are specialized points of space time generated by a local structure that allows any ship that is within the range of one to initiate a warp jump at a rate faster than what their ships would be capable of in non-relay volumes.  Warp relay-like phenomena occurs in nature in the form of binary neutron Star systems where gravity wave disruptions create a natural, if highly unstable (timing is important) region of distorted space-time for a warp jump.  Warp relays are very diverse in how they can be made, with the simplest method being literally an upscaled warp reactor that is spun to create the volume.  Such primitive warp relays have lots of radiation problems and are highly sensitive while being highly difficulty to make.  They have to be protected well and not have to deal with anyone shooting at them.  

More advanced civs have better, sturdier and easier to make warp relays that upend how they can be used in general, but miniaturization is so elusive that more advanced civs often just opt to go for other methods of infrastructural FTL despite how this method in theory allows a boost to expansion.  

###  Hyperspace Generators

megastructures that generate an artificial hyperspace that can be accessed using hyper drives.  Usually are very big and expensive to make, along with being notoriously inflexible as any hyperdrive with the keys to a hyperspace can access/share that hyperspace.  Wormholes do not work in hyperspace.

### Krasnikov Tubes

Shortcuts in space time, often referred to as rifts or confused with wormholes.  Wormholes are spherical while krasnikov tubes are a hyper spatial shortcut that usually is created by trailing a warp ship that leaves a rift behind or some micro-trailer that goes ahead to make a rift in advance.

### Special Regions

Special regions are regions of space time that swap with each other.  They can be shaped in any way and aren't gravity sensitive.  They are hard to power but are persistent, even after millennia.  They move with everything.
