# Dwaine

Dwaine is the main planet of the Cyngus 1772 System.  Or as it is actually called by those who live there, the Zornickan system due to the [vanguard] colony ship's heavy Serbian population seeing intense auroras around each world in the system.  Cyngus 1772 is a late F-class star with numerous distinctive properties that lead to intense periods of solar winds.  It isn't the most stable star, but not to prohibitive yearly solar flare degrees like a lot of star systems can be.  The stakeclaiming battles over stars got very aggressive on earth, but the Zornickan colonists managed to get an F-class star even if they had to share with a plurality of people from India and the US.  The Vanguard preferred colony ships of mixed nationalities as a means to avoid nationalist colonies from emerging.  Or for those less cynical to promote the universal human ideal.  It was as they would say, 12207 HE when their colony ship was launched and it would be a decades long voyage to the Star.

At the Star a slew of reforms occurred near instantly, as the universalist protection policies the prime sovereign on Earth had hammered out with the socialist coalition party had limited and restricted colonization scope.  In that they didn't want worlds to be particularly damaged with their unique geologies being "compromised".  If even so much a microbe of bacteria was found that world could not be settled.  The problem was the colonists at Dwaine has already made their colony on a world with distinctive bluish bacterial mats.  While they preserved such areas as world centers and potential scientific research posts they still had done quite a bit of colonization elsewhere at the expense of some of the local ecology.  The policy from earth was therefore ignored due to believing in the "actual deal" made with the vanguard as an entity by earth's nations.  That being the vanguard as a temporary entity to facilitate interstellar expansion.  Universalism was not part of their equation as a result.  

Dwaine itself was named after the colonial captain Dwaine, the y had mutated to an i with his name and it just stuck.  The policy of naming colonized worlds after their captain was a polarizing one on earth, who insisted to call the world HIP 192768 D to "remove the stench of old thinking".  In practice no one took that policy seriously and the name Dwaine stuck to the present. 
