# The Grand Sphere of Appath

## Overview

The Grand Sphere of Appath is a lurid, tetrahedral space station where a lot of the An Appath's activities are based.  It is one of the largest space craft ever made in prospect space history as well, using a shifter drive to move around a spaceship that is actually a jovian moon that over decades and centuries was engineered into a massive space craft.  The An Appath's ideological mission was limited for a while by a lack of means to do this.  However work into a wide range of Sprawl archives in Karbana Kinnis gave them access to a tech that had been experimented on only few times before- The Shifter Drive.  It is a drive system that is effectively a massive warp drive, functioning by creating a soft warp field that extends out vast distances.  It has other theoretical uses, but it mainly is used to move huge celestial bodies around.  However its usage is limited by the need to still move a world out of the gravitational neighborhood of the local star system.  

Which the An Appath society would do within the chaos of the Ikeitan Wars to move their base of operations to being a mobile one, able to go to various parts of the prospect to bring about the better dozin and break with the dominionist ladders forever in favor of the wheel, the wheels of equal accountability and judgement.  Their society for all its wealth as just for a long time seen as a neutral sect is now one that has come to be seen as terrorists and heretics by the Mediators.  Hence the need for a world ship their own ships can go to and back for temporal operations.  Usually the world is stationed in an Oort Cloud of a system of interest with a "general timer" all pilots use.  If the coordinates of the world are compromised The Grand Sphere of Appath will shift away, leaving lots of abandoned sects who often must be sought after later...  usually often, too late.    Life on the word is kept warm by the core of the moon, which is energized artificially by induced earthquakes with large communities inside rift biomes or in the numerous orbital cities that are satellites to the Grand Sphere.  The Grand Sphere has been wrecking lots of havoc lately, as the An Appath's radicalization only gets worse and its converters more willing to go kamikaze in the name of the burning wheel.  
