# Imartasa

## Overview

Imartasa is a core world of the Balch Fleet that was a low gravity desert world made into a sprawling world for all life.  The fanatical love of the flesh and mortal, in contrasts to the fanatical hate of the spiritual and immaterial is the philosophy behind the entire livelihoods of everyone within the world.  Imartasa is a world where biometallic architecture is far more fluid and curvy than the rigidity and Dilliberations of the Urzine, with buildings often growing into and connecting to each other.  

The pinkish colorations and lights streak across Imartasa from orbit, with balch worlders freely coming and going from a large orbital ring structure that is shockingly egalitarian, at least as much as you can be for a multi species wonderland.  The Vilate, Yalilu and Taysnoddl who act in tandem with Vopdon, Utanguis, Ivoltic, Sarkic and Fosskemian Balch denizens are in beyond harmonious coordination in ways that unnerve outsiders in the kind of actively anti-Dozinist biocollectivism that has gone to increasingly radical levels within the Balch.  Indeed this world is one filled with those working towards making weapons to slay the evil of Dozin once and for all for all eternity across all timelines.  All matter of super weaponry is experimented with in other parts of the system, all with the intent to rip holes in the fabric of reality itself to hit Dozin.   

The whole society is built around common collaboration against Dozin and the world often goes into over the top struggle sessions where many process and shout their hatred of Dozin on a regular basis, tempting Dozin to strike them down.  The Balch Ikeitans see themselves as equals to all self aware beings of the universe, and are indeed true believers.  They really do believe they are cooperating with other species who were also slaves of Dozin in a grand scale struggle to defeat Dozin in the Great War against Dozin directly, unlike the Urzine and their desire to cut off the sites of worship and starve Dozin.  
