## The Ember (Or Kinnis)

## Overview

The Ember is found in the prospect and is the most well known sprawl ecumenopolis to have survived to the present day...  barely.  It is far more developed than the sprawl world Mizar G, with the world being all city.  It was evidently a distant city world and not fully connected to the seeds, being a rogue dispatch almost.  It stands as the core of Karbana Kinnis regardless, with prospect spacer occupants in some parts even as the Opallian Domain dominates it and has been an ongoing threat to the region as a whole.  Opallian activities even were found in the Lost Cluster and are speculated to be why the Etherials collapsed their wormholes, a stupid choice but one the Opallians loved.  

The Treasure world is called as such because it's an ecumenopolis built upon a gold rich Terran planet.  It is ancient, dating back a daunting 20 thousand years with construction stopping around 12 thousand years.  Many sprawl colonies in the Karbana Kinnis Cluster come from this rather developed seed world.  It seems this world had a collapse as expected but it wasn't to the totality of many other sprawl worlds where they were reduced to slag and molten rock, gravitationally unraveled or dragged into the nearby sun.  This world was lucky.  Indeed they followed a general sentiment of luck, the survivors.  Even with the conflicting factions from the White Hive, the First to fifth Federation and last city or even the Jarto they seemed to have been an outlier of survivors.

 Not the stragglers of Uvastis who were defeated by the scavenger civ that had arisen since.  They are a conceited bunch, more interested in conquering sprawl worlds in the cluster and potentially retaking Uvastis than in doing much about the scavengers who raid them.  It's hard to do all that much, as they work with anachronistic technology constantly and the ancient divisions within Kinnis have yet to ever resolve.  Whatever federation with their warlord puppets controls a part of Kinnis can be hard to care about as one explores the vast empty cityscapes with automata moving about reminding many of what once existed.  

 The population collapse and recovery was all due to the automata and this lead to widespread superstitions on the sprawl that have persisted for millennia since.  This world constrains populations in the trillions, yet still feels mostly empty to prospect spacers who managed to explore it (not hard, considering that the inhabitants rarely use spaceships and have various warp gates to other parts of the cluster instead).  They're connected to the verdant reach as well, their space elevators go high and humans who managed a sprawl back door still are exploring the labyrinthine of the Treasure world in its many artifacts and lost societies lurking in the endless automata supported urban sprawl.  
