## Kusneto Prime
￼
## Overview

One of the main surviving inner colony worlds which has developed a megalopolis supporting a surface population in the hundred billions, space elevators and and orbital ring with hundreds of cylinder worlds as artificial satellites.  Kusneto is a highly developed world that exists separate from the Estate or the GAC being a self declared system state.  They're a society that can be viewed in a niche comparable to Singapore and Switzerland combined in how they're an important trade system due to their influence over the hyades star cluster and have avoided taking sides in any outside "space shit" that they view with antipathy and derision Internally but act friendly and cosmopolitan to visitors with a diplomacy that exists to keep them at arm's length.  

They're a part of the greater solar association, a network of worlds that manages to exist as a significant minor power which has played off the mush, estates, hives and even Silent imperium.  They're rather wealthy and view themselves as a neutral zone.  It was among the early colony worlds of the Terran federation (being a world colonized in 2207) and shares a similar status to New Atlantis, another association world.  However they were a much more culturally conservative world, being a culture of collected folk who have managed a rather stable system of AI bureaucracy after the vopson invasion that has made them deeply wary of alien forces as a whole.  They didn't getting much harm mainly due to the luck of not being in the path of them, but still had to deal with the instability it caused them as a secondary consequence along with fending off both Vopson, various "peacekeepers" and privateers who were widespread during the collapse.  

Them weathering the collapse mostly involved hunkering down and for a century being a rather totalitarian society.  This totalitarianism ended around 2625 when those in power realized that their government would make it hard for them to take a major role in reformation.  There was unrest and eventual redemocratization that led to the current culture which despite their neo-Terran aestheticism really only ossified around 2700, over a century after the Terran collapse.  Still they preserved a lot of culture even with the totalitarian period.  

They're more a republic with dumb AI bureaucracy and human leaders not too unlike a lot of GAC worlds, but they don't allow mind uploading and have remained conservative about most augmentation.  The automata they use are very much a thing they take pride in, but they still expect work and labor among their human populations due to the crisis of purpose they endured during the Terran golden age.  The Terran era was much less urbanized, as while Kusneto Prime is an earth sized planet with the same gravity and surface oceans, it still had atmospheric problems that only were fully addressed by the 2700's.  Older paraterraforming settlements still are used in the "rustic" parts of the world, even if they are no longer practical.
