# Liduzum

Liduzum is perhaps a case study in the sheer amount of peculiar places advanced life has managed to develop.  For in total mockery of ancient human conceptions of where advanced intelligent life can develop, Liduzum came to be.  Liduzum is a highly volcanic desert world in orbit of a brown dwarf known as Lidus B.  Lidus A is a F-Class star.  Liduzum's ecology formed in these conditions with highly acidic oceans thanks to all the vulcanism on the world which made the world a hotspot for sulfuric organisms whose teal-white colorations complemented the yellowish coloration of many other organisms on the world who in these low gravity conditions made use of many skittering appendages.

And from those skittering organisms came the [Whandl](../../Stellar_Abyss_Setting_Bible/2_Sapients/Darwinian/Whandl.md) themselves.  The Whandl proved an amazingly industrious species on the world, where they persisted in the harsh conditions of the world to the point of managing whole city complexes built on the kinetic energy of geothermal plants, earthquakes and even were doing experiments with space travel until the Dominion invaded.  The Dominion during the occupation were impressed enough with the Whandl that they allowed them to ascend Dozin's Pyramid and this has created a world laden in incredible wealth.  The world has in modern times become a mixed realm of Whandl, Vopson, Zakkai and more who continue to bioform and geoengineer the world not to make it a nice friendly place but to make it even more violent a place by design, with even Lidus B being rendered full of cloud cities and an alkaline void ecology that had been cultivated into a vast biosphere in its own right full of life.  
