# The March

The March is the name of a world with vibrant green landscapes caused by the chlorocarbons which have filled the atmosphere and caused a mass extinction.  The world has in the past millennia have seen an evolutionary explosion in chlorine resistant grasses that have rapidly colonized the world in the centuries since.  Most of this ecology consists of highly sessile organisms, as fauna-like niches had been dominated by the various machines which still roam this world.  For the March gets its name from much more from the artificial, mindless machines who have filled in various niches.  As the March is a world where the automata have marched on even without any orders.  

Doing so because their solar powered batteries have allowed them to persist even as they progressively rust, age and decay.  The road networks in some regions remain relatively pristine and oily black, the cities sterile and clean.  The main hazard is the atmosphere rich in chlorine.  Of which have persisted on the world since the chlorine holocaust.  The remains of the creatures who created these machines and cities are nowhere to be found, likely corroded away by the acidic environment the machines are able to survive with ease.  The automata themselves are passive and docile, only occupied with cleaning things and keeping repairs going.  They seem to have no directing AI, just the aimless following of their function with the only self aware AI being aimless sentinels who seemingly aren't even aware they were made and live a very tribalistic life style.

The featured automata is a road cleaner, its back contains the bulk of the scrubbers.  It uses four thin foldable legs and a foldable head to walk over hilly terrain to get to places off the beaten path so that the roads remain oily black, where it transforms into what is basically a massive automated scrubber.  
