# Vataland

Vataland is one of the most loathesome worlds in the Civic, a place that is borderline taboo to even bring up.  It was a once prosperous world of the Terran empire, a crowning example of human achievement.  A garden world of garden worlds.  Glittering cities, with bustling ambitions and industries that optimized warp drive systems, developed a wide range of medical and industrial gels still used centuries later and a dark, corrupt core as a place humans were being pit against humans by race.  The racial hierarchy on Vataland was beyond disturbing.  They had used genetic modification in ways that the Estate would even find repugnant- it was used to gimp people based on their skin color, literally make humans into animalesque creatures.  These practices were given a mostly blind eye, this logical extreme of dehumanization that led to environments and racial conflicts almost engineered.  White supremacy inched towards becoming the reigning ideology on Vataland.  Radical groups pervaded and insurrections became common, the world itself descending to the dark age as the racial hierarchy was genetically entrenched.  Yet those in power remained unhappy, even as they cut humans from their humanity.  The people they made worthless, beyond intentionally, they believed had to go.

Yet those people ran amok instead, causing massive amounts of biblical chaos as they resisted the genetic programming from influences now known to be from competing sub-terran groups who sought to subvert and infiltrate Vataland for what tech they once had aspired towards.  The other motives being to a degree suspicion of secessionism, but without the proof of it no actual peacekeeping forces were sent in until it was far too late for the inhabitants of Vataland.

That travesty would be what led to the Anterka burial.  People were marched out into the vast Anterkian desert and made to dig graves.  That instructed to kill those by them.  Again and again, until about 90% of Vataland and its 120 billion inhabitants was depopulated into a vast mound of corpses strewn about and buried in the Anterkian desert.  The mass burials of anterka went beyond even genocide.  The whole operation mutilated the whole world, and dragged much of the whole sector down with it as everyone cut off the planet.  Machinery broke down, the world of Vataland collapsed into an apocalyptic nuclear war soon after as the power struggles between the elite factions broke out in the midst of the anterka burial.  Nukes were already being used on those brought into the deserts, to irradiate their bodies so even if someone survived, they'd die sooner than later as their bodies reduced.  The nuclear war on the world broke out in 2376 and utilized cobalt nukes that salted much of the world.  See, the two elite factions- the white supremacists and ascensionists loathed each other beyond the census of reducing the populous to sub humanity while enhancing themselves.  And they had been building up Arsenals in the form of thousands of cobalt bombs.  Yes, thousands of cobalt bombs.  The initial plan was a secret plot for secession but they would be used on Vataland instead.  They were mass produced them in secret over time, with secret police forces hiding them in all the cities, settlements and even the landscapes themselves.  Yet even that deterrence failed to keep order, the dehumanization experiment failed and led to chaos, the solution of massacre the ascension faction did proved horrid.  It even bothered the white power movements who saw other white people shot and irradiated in the Anterkan deserts with those same animals.  It looked to them that the ascensionists had backstabbed them, and that alone was enough to start a campaign of mass murders targeting ascensionist officials that rapidly escalated into nuclear ultimatums.  These were viewed as bluffs by the white supremacists.  The Ascensionists however, believed they could survive cobalt bombing and so launched their cobalt bombs.  The white supremacists launched their bombs too and Vataland was reduced to irradiated ashes world wide for centuries.   The world is said to be inhabited by radiation resilient subhumans to this day, with scattered, scared warlords and such being reported.  As is the depths of the Anterkan desert was filled with over a hundred billion bodies buried in the span of 4 decades.  This early sign of Terran neglect often goes unmentioned, as the Vopson invasions took precedent.  However Anterka's cataclysm has a vice grip on the minds of trillions even centuries later.  The madness, the outlook, the betrayal and obsession to enforce race hierarchies making it in some regards. Which ended last actively fascist civilization in human history.   Even the Estate is at best, anthropist.
