# Phidian Beliefs

##Klacanism

Klacanism is an ideology of Phidian origin

Klacanism is the state ideology of the Battered Consulate and is a belief system oriented around utter Unitarian collectivism and endless glory to the Consuls who run the empire.  The consul class being ran by the Imperial Supremacist, who acts as the will of the Consulate and as the will for the Phidian fugue.  It is an incredibly imperial ideology, built to rationalize the pattern of behaviors Phidians engage in, that is colonizing numerous worlds and xenoforming them to be much like their calcified home.  It is simply seen as the correct thing to do- the previous life there being seen as without meaning to existence and a curiosity at best.  Oxygen rich environments are needed for xenoforming, and so that usually means earth like worlds.  Their other goals are oriented around the ongoing need to keep unity among a very populated civilization where groups and herds grow to huge sizes and can go rogue due to isolation and frequently.  Total unity of the Phidians is the overall desire of the Klacanist, but the fractures still exist as ideologies such as Cinderism keep manifesting and making the efficiency of the empire ever harder.  Klacanists despise the liberating beliefs of the Cinderists, especially their mutilation of the all important shells and the cohesion they provide.  Klacanism is a spiritual ideology as much as a material one, for it sees material as something distorted out of shape and that the Phidians need to contort it back into proper, Phidian friendly forms and views nature as broken while Phidians must fix everything nature made a mess of.  Klacanists tend to think very little of other species, seeing them more as obstacles than as something you even do much talk to.  Alien interactions tend to be sparse and xenophobia is extremely aggressive with the Phidians, other species tend to be slaves even in the more liberal regions while the more conservative regions prefer simply "collective euthanasia" as more humane.  

## Cinderism

The Cinderists are another group the Consulate are highly hostile towards, as they were a cult who existed too far out of the reach of unification and continued to nomadically spread while the Consulate conquered most of their settlements later on.  But their beliefs lived on and affect the colonies heavily, who often have become used to drugging themselves with different mind altering substances than the ones which are officially sanctioned for the group.  Cinderists groups are very materialistic as far as they go and Cinderism is so widespread in modern times the Consulate has partially adapted the belief system despite the Klaconist faction'a total hostility to the deviants- as it is believed conformity and unity to the Consulate matters more than ideological conformity, and so many elites tried to make both work even as persecution happens at the same time.  The Cindering is an ideology based around mutilation and hope from mutilation.  The state of hopeful harm, so to speak- mutilation is a highly sexual act for them, peeling and cracking being of deeply liberating of the core self locked away by the confirms of natural laws- where rep fiction is a must, death must be feared and one must consume.  Active defiance of nature is a massive cultural drive of theirs, with a many zealots fasting, risking their lives regularly and having sex for the sake of sex- not in the name of having children and all of this is viewed as a logical conclusion of the distorting nature to fit Phidian existence Klaconism promotes even if Klaconists believe Phidian nature shouldn't be modified at all.
