
All species of the galaxy exist in the sprawl in some quasi/alter form.  These groups of human are very culturally removed, much more so than the custodian simulcra that referenced 22nd-23rd century Vanguard humanity.  The sprawl simulacra meanwhile, referenced prehistoric humanity on a much longer time frame and with far more nuance/detail.  Custodian virtual simulcra break out of their simulations all the time as they're not all that well made by simulation standards.  Sprawl Simulations meanwhile, are much more real seeming as the logic within them is built around a webework of perception within it more than as a massive server.  It is without better explanation of the technical details of their technology, like a collective dream which grows and keeps itself self-consistent.   They work without admins, the laws of physics collectively agreed upon are what given sprawl simulations.  The actors within dream the stage.  It is also not authoritarian, ways out of the "simulation" (if it makes sense to even use that term, they don't really have such clear barriers).  The implications of animist theologies governing simulations in human populated realms meant one saw tech develop on magical terms where fertility rituals actually worker and blood powered spaceships existed.  And such empires would find themselves in the post-rupture sprawl finding their tech worthless outside the sprawl, with the illusion of it working maintained even when not in their home world but accessing the sprawl through lodestones.  Such society has not actually been discovered by the plexus humans and the sprawl alter humans are uninterested in the plexus humans.  Of which they regarded as Metallic deviations unlike themselves.  Who are holographic nanite swarms manifesting a human form because they want to believe they're pure humans.