
### Overview

An entity in interstellar space within an Icy world, this one far less unified a mind and far more conflicted in their psychological arms race of ideas which has raged on for millions of years in isolation.  A vast canon of arguments they are known to have developed over the millennia since they gained self-awareness.  The metal heavy core they had meant hat electromagnetic currents turn their words into weapons and their thoughts into WMDs, which has raged on over the nature of the ecology.  They developed whole civilizations in order to make their points, often getting them wiped out in the process and in an eager desire for sadistic display have a huge continent sized grave yard for the dead that has gained many corpses over the million years.  Needless to say, the  Clogging Soul lives in its own little world in the stellar abyss isolated from everything else.  They are a civilization of incredible violence, you go there your exploration vessel would encounter the whole biosphere just ripping itself apart.  Hopefully they are too occupied to care about you too, as they have some quite shocking tech advancements that really, really screw with many forms of electronics such as what effectively amount to a directed EMP pulse wave.  Yet, they have seemingly only stayed in this world because they are just not interested in the outside universe or bothered looking.  They see their world as the only world in existence, with everything else being a mantle and depths from the universal ceiling that is the core.
