
### Overview

 The Tarpi are extremely ancient sapients, predating the sprawl by over a million years and had no sense of future or past.  Indeed, they still exist, they never hid or left.  They always were around if you ask them.  Their society's ever-present nature is made much more cryptic by their loose outlook and absence of imperial desire- they never will go anywhere they think life exists and much prefer to live around red dwarves.  They prefer hot, extremely burning worlds with dense cloud cover and seem to have a wry, yet dry outlook on existence which no real cure exists.  The Tarpi are ones to define themselves are prone to illness, endless illness.  Infecting themselves with diseases for the sake of being ill is pretty much a tradition for them and has been one since the beginning of sapience as far as they concern themselves.  

 They are a shockingly ignorant bunch, as while deeply ancient and capable of FTL travel (indeed, they slowly have come to occupy over 2 billion star systems in their part of the galaxy, all dim, dull and hard to see red dwarves) they don't like to keep records these days and evidently killed off all the other cultures who did (with no hard records to show for it).  Their societies, being so vastly widespread lack any cultural unity with all conformity being the product of a hundred thousand years worth of attempted standardizing of Tarpi thought in the isolating environment of space- indeed they also did go down the route of limited colonization.  The tarpi developed the Mizar primarily as a project, and it would seem that Tarpi disease making has spread to the Mizar too, much to the dismay of the galaxy at large.
