# The Jarto

The Jarto are beings of Operiunn descent who were found where they should not have existed- with their existence being based in the Aquila Rift and without much a sense of space.  They have made a network of artificial worlds in their local region and have regular dealings with various sprawl factions who go out to its sectors, mainly in the form of various defense treaties.  Their artificial worlds are usually characterized by an anomalous degree of sterility with the desire for clean worlds being effectively the doctrine of the Jarto.  The Jarto shelled themselves into the most sterile possible conditions and have a society which is triplistic in its worldview.  The Jarto entities are named primarily after their artificial nexus world much more than their home world and they don't like to acknowledge their home world.  

The Jarto tend to be a very insular bunch, making use of a secluded wormhole network as opposed to traditional FTL and loathe anti-matter which has limited their development in multiple areas (even if they could in theory make warp drives, they just don't).  They tend to be extremely territorial as well, when they aren't dealing with ongoing rebellion troubles in their core worlds (while counter intuitively, the peripheral is astoundingly loyal).  The Jarto value for cleanliness is paired with an extremely regulated system of obsessive policing, even if punishment tends to be usually silent room based instead of execution based.  They abhor VR despite existed in a state of perpetual augmented reality within the magnetized constructs they use to fly around their worlds.  

They aren't too advanced and have generally benefited by being extremely neutral and existing in isolation from the rest of the galaxy.  The origins of the Jarto are cryptic, but what is known is that they are biologically descendants of the Operiunn though they lack the typical trappings of the operiunn such as their neural parasitism and authoritarian symbiotic nature.
