# The Wisps

￼
The wispy primitivists are an Aveterriat offshoot who embraced genetic modification and have made themselves into elongated beings with a dozen limbs who saw the kabuzihin as an ideal and so sought to emulate them and technologically regressed to a primitive state as a result.  

￼## Wispy Primitives

The wispy primitives don't have a eusocial system, but do have a caste system.  Indeed their caste system is much more rigorous than the caste systems usually seen with the aveterriat,  to the point where generational role changes have been made biologically impossible.  All must do as they do, with no ruler, just tools aimlessly making tunnels in thousands of worlds.  They have abandoned all culture, all intelligence, everything.  All knowledge is baked in from birth, all ambitions are set towards their sole, blissful purpose.  The Wisps do have space travel, making use of Aveterriat tech still to make an extremely uniform fleet of craft with no tribal markings or clan markings.  Just uniformity all around, with a comm network and the same drive for every jump.  They tend to only use space travel to defend themselves from others and colonize other worlds, but due to engineering away self awareness can't adapt to anything anymore.  The Wisps these days are used as one of the reasons not to use genetic modification by many Aveterriat groups, who much prefer the system of shelled entities.

## Anarchic Wisps

There has been mutations regardless, mainly due to the faulty nature of wisp modification.  Sometimes whole colonies would be overtaken by this new brand of Wisp who regained self awareness, which rapidly causes them to become incredibly anarchic and individualistic.  These anarchic wisps are very rigid still, but act only for themselves instead of in the favor of some system.  One may just build tunnels forever, but in the name of only itself, its tunnels. No one else's.  The Anarchic Wisps are made worse by how they tend to be very individualistic without any of the sense of constraint your typical species has, to the point where they may commit acts of terrorism if even slightly bothered by others (even other Wisps- they attack other Wisps just as much as they do interstellar polities).  Anarchist Wisps have no cause or purpose to why they do this, it is all impulse and self defense to them.  They are extremely anti-social and tend to prefer doing everything by themselves which has made them rather weak, and reliant on stolen technology any ways.  Their individuality for most Aveterriat actually makes them more alien to the mainline Aveterriat than the typical Wisps.
